README.md, before:

# andino-rs

Oxidizing [andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino) robot.

## Description

This project provides a rustacean version on top of an [andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino) robot.

## Prerequisites

Refer to official instructions for [building an andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino/tree/humble/andino_hardware).

## Platforms

 - OS:
   - Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish
   - Ubuntu Mate 22.04 (On real robot (e.g: Raspberry Pi 4B))

### Project structure

 - [`andino`](/andino/): Core library for andino robot. It provides a hardware abstraction layer (HAL) to communciate with the andino robot.
 - [`andino_dora`](/andino_dora/): It provides dora dataflows to run andino-integration.
 - [`dora_node_hub`](/dora_node_hub/): Dora nodes.
   -  [`dora_andino_hal`](dora_node_hub/dora_andino_hal): Integration of the andino hal with Dora.
   -  [`dora_diff_drive_controller`](dora_node_hub/dora_diff_drive_controller): Differential drive controller to be used in Dora frameworks.
   -  [`dora_teleop_keyboard`](dora_node_hub/dora_teleop_keyboard): Dora node for teleoperating mobile robots using the keyboard.


## Workspace setup

Refer to [.devcontainer/README.md](.devcontainer/README.md)

## Build

```
cargo build
```

## Dora Integration

What is dora? See https://dora-rs.ai/

### Teleoperating the Andino robot

```mermaid
        flowchart TB
  dora_andino_hal["**dora_andino_hal**"]
  dora_diff_drive_controller["**dora_diff_drive_controller**"]
  dora_keyboard[\"**dora_keyboard**"/]
  dora_teleop_keyboard["**dora_teleop_keyboard**"]
subgraph ___dora___ [dora]
  subgraph ___timer_timer___ [timer]
    dora/timer/millis/100[\millis/100/]
  end
end
  dora_diff_drive_controller -- joints_speed_cmd --> dora_andino_hal
  dora/timer/millis/100 -- tick --> dora_andino_hal
  dora_teleop_keyboard -- cmd_vel --> dora_diff_drive_controller
  dora_keyboard -- char as key --> dora_teleop_keyboard
```

Build the `andino_dora`'s dataflow:
```
dora build andino_dora/graphs/dataflow.yml
```

Run the dataflow locally:
```
dora run andino_dora/graphs/dataflow.yml
```

### Appendix

#### On Running the Dora dataflows

`dora run <path_to_dataflow>` runs the dataflow locally. Alternatively, you can run first the coordinator and daemon with `dora up` and then `dora start <path_to_dataflow>` to start the dataflow.
By default the coordinator is run at localhost and daemon pointing there. You can use a different setup. Follow the options from the `dora --help` CLI.

Commit message:

Adds dora node for Mujoco Simulation. (#19)
Signed-off-by: Franco Cipollone <franco.c@ekumenlabs.com>

README.md, after:

# andino-rs

Oxidizing [andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino) robot.

## Description

This project provides a rustacean version on top of an [andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino) robot.

## Prerequisites

Refer to official instructions for [building an andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino/tree/humble/andino_hardware).

## Platforms

 - OS:
   - Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish
   - Ubuntu Mate 22.04 (On real robot (e.g: Raspberry Pi 4B))

### Project structure

 - [`andino`](/andino/): Core library for andino robot. It provides a hardware abstraction layer (HAL) to communciate with the andino robot.
 - [`andino_dora`](/andino_dora/): It provides dora dataflows to run andino-integration.
 - [`andino_dora_sim`](/andino_dora/): It provides dora dataflows to run andino simulation.
 - [`dora_node_hub`](/dora_node_hub/): Dora nodes.
   -  [`dora_andino_hal`](dora_node_hub/dora_andino_hal): Integration of the andino hal with Dora.
   -  [`dora_andino_mujoco_sim`](dora_node_hub/dora_andino_mujoco_sim): Integration of the andino mujoco simulation with Dora.
   -  [`dora_diff_drive_controller`](dora_node_hub/dora_diff_drive_controller): Differential drive controller to be used in Dora frameworks.
   -  [`dora_teleop_keyboard`](dora_node_hub/dora_teleop_keyboard): Dora node for teleoperating mobile robots using the keyboard.


## Workspace setup

Refer to [.devcontainer/README.md](.devcontainer/README.md)

## Build

```
cargo build
```

## Dora Integration

What is dora? See https://dora-rs.ai/

### `andino_dora` package

[`andino_dora`](andino_dora) package provides serveral dora dataflows.
Check [`andino_dora`'s README](andino_dora) for more information on how to run it.

### `andino_dora_sim` package

[`andino_dora_sim`](andino_dora_sim) package provides serveral dora dataflows for using the simulation.
Check [`andino_dora_sim`'s README](andino_dora_sim) for more information on how to run it.

### Appendix

#### On Running the Dora dataflows

`dora run <path_to_dataflow>` runs the dataflow locally. Alternatively, you can run first the coordinator and daemon with `dora up` and then `dora start <path_to_dataflow>` to start the dataflow.
By default the coordinator is run at localhost and daemon pointing there. You can use a different setup. Follow the options from the `dora --help` CLI.
